17421634 How disable remote access in elasticsearch

When running a elasticsearch server. We can access `www.example.com:9200`

But i want block remote access only allow local access.

How to setting?

Elasticsearch allows you to disable the http endpoint just setting
`http.enabled` to false in the settings. It also allows to have a local node
which will only be reachable in the same jvm. On the other hand you are asking
how to allow only local access to the rest endpoint, which is different and
require the use of additional tools.

In fact, it's not a good idea to expose elasticsearch to the internet. I would
use a proxy like apache or Nginx to limit the access to it and open for
instance only some of the available endpoints, but that's needed only if you
have external users that want to send messages directly to elasticsearch.
Usually that's not the case. Or if you just want to deny access to it for all
external users, because it's for instance only your website or application
that needs access to it, just use a firewall and setup a proper rule to close
the 9200 port.

Instead of disabling whole HTTP protocol by changing `http.enabled` in
`/etc/elasticsearch/elasticsearch.yml` settings (because some of your APIs can
use the HTTP endpoint which was my case), you can just set `network.host:
localhost` in the same file.

This will make your `:9200` HTTP access to be available only from your local
machine/server.

You should set http.host to "127.0.0.1". This way you can access http on port
9200 from host itself, however not from outside. This also allows you to put a
proxy which listens on some other port and filters and passes the requests
selectively to elasticsearch node on localhost:9200.

For example, you may want to reject the request for shutdown, do a basic
authentication using nginx and then pass all query requests to elasticsearch
cluster url at <http://localhost:9200>.

This doesn't involve firewall.

