25218159 Running Elasticsearch server on a mobile device (android / iphone /
ios)

I would like to know if it is possible to run an Elasticsearch server on a
mobile device (android / iphone / ios) and if so, how I should go about doing
it.

In my case, the reason for doing it is to have an offline database on the
device that is easily searchable (with all elasticsearch advanced functions)

Optionally, I would maybe also use elasticsearch's cluster/replication
capacities to keep the offline data on the device synced with a server.

No, you can't , at least for now there is no official build that can run in
mobile devices.

Well, maybe (at least on Android, for iPhone the answer is no). Others have
discussed it not certain that anyone has succeeded. The Android Dalvik is a
JVM, just missing some things that are typically not required for mobile apps.
In theory you should be able to try to compile ES and run it on Android.
However, you are likely to run into issues with missing libraries and apis
that ES requires, so it all depends on how comfortable you are diving in to ES
source code to resolve them.

This previous discussion might be of help, you might try to reach out to those
on the thread to see if anyone succeeded:

<http://elasticsearch-users.115913.n3.nabble.com/ElasticSearch-HTTP-Server-on-
Android-td4056423.html>

Can you not use regular ajax calls in your app to connect to elasticsearch?
I'm not sure if it would be the best way but that's how I have it going.

I'm also looking for a fulltext search engine for Offline First mobile apps.

I haven't developped anything yet, but I think the easiest solution can be
using the [Clucene](http://clucene.sourceforge.net/) Library (a C++ version of
Lucene) as fulltext search engine instead of ElasticSearch (which is based on
Lucene - Java).

In fact, we don't need all the features of Elasticsearch for the mobile, such
as webserver, restfull api, etc...

You can find some work around on Google:

  * <https://github.com/asheeshv/CLucene-iOS-Android-Win8>
  * <https://github.com/saturnman/clucene-iOS>
  * <https://github.com/hurongliang/clucene-ios-example>

Still looking for a Cordova/Phonegap solution...

Hope it can help.

**Edit:**

I have found this tool that provide Offline First capabilities in Javascript.
It will work with Cordova/Phone Gap and maybe with ReactNative:

<http://elasticlunr.com/>

There is the
[ElasticSearch4Android](https://github.com/karussell/ElasticSearch4Android)
project that seems to try to do just that, but I am not sure it is not dead.
It has total 6 commits 3 years ago.

Maybe we can put one shoulder there, and help build it.

I will contact the author to see what is the state of the project.

