19243074 Dump all documents of Elasticsearch

Is there any way to create a dump file that contains all the data of an index
among with its settings and mappings?

A Similar way as mongoDB does with
[mongodump](http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/reference/program/mongodump/)  
or as in Solr [its data folder is
copied](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3591258/how-to-backup-a-solr-
database-to-a-file) to a backup location.

Cheers!

The data itself is one or more lucene indices, since you can have multiple
shards. What you also need to backup is the cluster state, which contains all
sorts of information regarding the cluster, the available indices, their
mappings, the shards they are composed of etc.

It's all within the `data` directory though, you can just copy it. Its
structure is pretty intuitive. Right before copying it's better to disable
automatic flush (in order to backup a consistent view of the index and
avoiding writes on it while copying files), issue a manual flush, disable
allocation as well. Remember to copy the directory from all nodes.

Also, next major version of elasticsearch is going to provide a new
snapshot/restore api that will allow you to perform incremental snapshots and
restore them too via api. Here is the related github issue:
<https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/3826>.

Here's a new tool we've been working on for exactly this purpose
<https://github.com/taskrabbit/elasticsearch-dump>. You can export indices
into/out of JSON files, or from one cluster to another.

Elasticsearch supports this now out of the box:

<http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/modules-
snapshots.html>

ElasticSearch itself provides a way to create data backup and restoration. The
simple command to do it is:

    
    
    CURL -XPUT 'localhost:9200/_snapshot/<backup_folder name>/<backupname>' -d '{
        "indices": "<index_name>",
        "ignore_unavailable": true,
        "include_global_state": false
    }'
    

Now, how to create, this folder, how to include this folder path in
ElasticSearch configuration, so that it will be available for ElasticSearch,
restoration method, is well explained [here](http://jee-
appy.blogspot.com/2016/11/elasticsearch-backup-and-restore.html). To see its
practical demo surf [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Otl-IcmbiDE).

