21959298 Elasticsearch questions: search, performance and caching

I'm new to elasticsearch, have been reading their API and some things are not
clear to me

**1) It is said that filters are cached.** what does that mean? if i send a
`query` with a `filter` on it, what gets cached? The results of that query? If
i send a different `query` with the same `filter`, will the cache help me
somehow?  
I know the question is kinda vague, but so is ElasticSearch's documentation
for this.

**2)** Is there a real **performance difference between a query matching** a
term X to the `"_all"` field or to a specific field? As far i understand, both
queries will be compared against all documents that contain X in **one** of
their fields, and the only difference is in how many fields will be matched
against X, in these documents. is that correct?

1) For your first question take a look at this
[link](http://www.elasticsearch.org/blog/all-about-elasticsearch-filter-
bitsets/).  To quote from the post "Filters don’t score documents – they
simply include or exclude. If a document matches a filter, it is represented
with a one in the BitSet; otherwise a zero. This means that Elasticsearch can
store an entire segment’s filter state (“who matches this particular filter?”)
in a single, compact BitSet.

The first time Elasticsearch executes a filter, it parses Lucene segment data
structures to determine what matches your filter. Instead of throwing away
this information, it caches it inside a BitSet.

The next time the same filter is executed, Elasticsearch can reference the
compact BitSet instead of the Lucene segments. This has huge performance
benefits."

2) "The idea of the _all field is that it includes the text of one or more
other fields within the document indexed. It can come very handy especially
for search requests, where we want to execute a search query against the
content of a document, without knowing which fields to search on. **This comes
at the expense of CPU cycles and index
size**."[link](http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/mapping-
all-field.html) So if you know what fields you are going to query use
specifics fields to search on.

