24560746 Difference between Elasticsearch Range Query and Range Filter

I want to query elasticsearch documents within a date range. I have two
options now, both work fine for me. Have tested both of them.  1\. Range Query
2\. Range Filter

Since I have a small data set for now, I am unable to test the performance for
both of them. What is the difference between these two? and which one would
result in faster retrieval of documents and faster response?

Filters are cached so they are faster!

<http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/en/elasticsearch/guide/current/filter-
caching.html>

The main difference between queries and filters has to do with scoring.
Queries return documents with a relative ranked score for each document.
Filters do not. This difference allows a filter to be faster for two reasons.
First, it does not incur the cost of calculating the score for each document.
Second, it can cache the results as it does not have to deal with possible
changes in the score from moment to moment - it's just a boolean really, does
the document match or not?

From the documentation:

> Filters are usually faster than queries because:

>

> they don’t have to calculate the relevance _score for each document —  the
answer is just a boolean “Yes, the document matches the filter” or “No, the
document does not match the filter”. the results from most filters can be
cached in memory, making subsequent executions faster.

As a practical matter, the question is do you use the relevance score in any
way? If not, filters are the way to go. If you do, filters still may be of use
but should be used where they make sense. For instance, if you had a language
field (let's say language: "EN" as an example) in your documents and wanted to
query by language along with a relevance score, you would combine a query for
the text search along with a filter for language. The filter would cache the
document ids for all documents in english and then the query could be applied
to that subset.

I'm over simplifying a bit, but that's the basics. Good places to read up on
this:

<http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-
dsl-filtered-query.html>

<http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/0.90/query-dsl-
filtered-query.html>

<http://exploringelasticsearch.com/searching_data.html>

<http://elasticsearch-users.115913.n3.nabble.com/Filters-vs-Queries-
td3219558.html>

