19807946 Why is React's filesize so big given its small API?

Here are the numbers

  * min+gzip 26k 
  * gzip 90k 
  * original 450+k

And React doesn't have many features in it's documentation. Why is it so big?

I have a feeling that it's the implementation of lightweight DOM. But I want
to be sure.

React does quite a bit! The biggest nonobvious part of React is probably the
events system -- not only does React implement its own event dispatching and
bubbling, it normalizes common events across browsers so that you don't need
to worry as much about it. For example,
[SelectEventPlugin](https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/28eddd16700d5c086c6235b3be9c1674a2fa3a4a/src/eventPlugins/SelectEventPlugin.js)
is a built-in event "plugin" which provides an `onSelect` event which behaves
the same way in all browsers.

The **virtual DOM** implementation does take a decent amount of code as well;
a lot of effort is spent on performance optimization, which is why the
unminified version includes **ReactPerf** , which is a tool for measuring
rendering performance. In updating the DOM, React also does some convenient
things for you like maintaining any input selection and keeping the current
scroll position the same.

React also has a few other tricks up its sleeve. One of the coolest is that it
fully supports rendering a component to an HTML string even if you don't have
a browser environment, so you can send down a page that works even before JS
is loaded.

* * *

What are you comparing React against? `react-15.0.2.min.js` is `43k
(gzipped)`, but jQuery is 33k while `ember-2.6.0.prod.js` is `363k (also
gzipped)`. Obviously these frameworks don't do exactly the same things but
they do have a lot of overlap, so I think the comparison is reasonable.

If you're worried about download size, I wouldn't worry too much about JS code
contributing to that. Here's an ad which I see on the right side of my Stack
Overflow page right now:

![](https://static.adzerk.net/Advertisers/9ab0362823a548228a99dd813b6c6f37.png)

Its download size is 95k -- I wouldn't think twice about including an image
like that in a page because (even if I was worried about performance) there
are usually so many other performance-related things to fix that are more
lucrative.

* * *

In short, I don't think React is that big, and what size it does have comes
from the many small things it does to help you out. You cite React's small API
as a reason that React's code should be small, but a better question might be,
"How is React's API able to be so simple given all the things it does for
you?"

â€¦but that's a totally separate question. :) Hope I answered your question --
happy to expand if I didn't.

A couple of thoughts.. I had some of the same concerns with it's size, but
after using it, no joke, I would use it if it was 5MB in size. It's just that
good. That said, I did decide to reduce as many dependencies on other
libraries as possible. I was using jquery for two things.. ajax and the
automatic ajax response and request handling (beforeSend, etc) that would
handle when a token was in a response after login, and then make sure every
ajax request added it to the Authorization header before sending. I replaced
this with a super small simple bit of native javascript. Works great. Also, I
was trying to use _underscore. I've replaced it with lodash, which is smaller
and faster, although presently I am not using it so may remove it altogether.

Here is one article, of many on google, that I found that has some
alternatives using native JS over jquery.

<http://www.sitepoint.com/jquery-vs-raw-javascript-1-dom-forms/>

