30219255 Spring Boot: Change Port for Web Application

I am currently trying to create a web application with Spring Boot. I need to
host my application to localhost:8081. How do I change the port?

Actually you want to change `server.port` and you can change it in many
different ways as described <http://docs.spring.io/spring-
boot/docs/current/reference/htmlsingle/#boot-features-external-config>

Examples:

  * in your application.properties (in or outside the jar)
  * command line

java -Dserver.port=$PORT -jar target/demo-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar

and much more

Actually you want to change server.port and you can change it in many
different ways as described  <http://docs.spring.io/spring-
boot/docs/current/reference/htmlsingle/#boot-features-external-config>

Put **_server.port=9000_** in your application.properties

If you are using the embedded tomcat server, you can configure the
EmbeddedServletContainerFactory bean yourself in your Application class
annotated with @SpringBootApplication.

This will give you options to customize your tomcat server, example
configuration

    
    
    @Bean
    public EmbeddedServletContainerFactory servletContainer() {
        TomcatEmbeddedServletContainerFactory factory = new TomcatEmbeddedServletContainerFactory();
        factory.setPort(9000);
        factory.setSessionTimeout(10, TimeUnit.MINUTES);
        factory.addErrorPages(new ErrorPage(HttpStatus.NOT_FOUND, "/notfound.html"));
        return factory;
    } 
    

You could also do the same for Jetty, using the
JettyEmbeddedServletContainerFactory bean, or for Undertow using the
UndertowEmbeddedServletContainerFactory .

Official documentation found here : <http://docs.spring.io/spring-
boot/docs/current-SNAPSHOT/reference/htmlsingle/>

By default spring boot uses port 8080, BUT you can change the port just by
adding the following code line in your main() like this:

    
    
    System.getProperties().put( "server.port", *YOUR_PORT_NUMBER_GOES_HERE* );  
    

_e.g_

    
    
    @SpringBootApplication
    public class MyClass {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.getProperties().put( "server.port", 8181 );  //8181 port is set here
        SpringApplication.run(MyClass.class, args);
    }
    

**OR**

You can configure it in your application.properties file like so:

    
    
    server.port=8181
    

If you DON'T have an application.properties file in your spring-boot
application, you can go ahead and create one. Right-click on the
**src/java/resources** folder and go to **New-> Other-> General and choose
'File'** then name as: **application.properties**

Any other configurations you might need are listed here
<https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/common-
application-properties.html>. These properties are also configured in the
application.properties file.

In your application.properties file, just add one line

    
    
    server.port = 8080
    

And for more configurations you can refer [Spring Boot
documentation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-
boot/docs/current/reference/html/howto-embedded-servlet-containers.html#howto-
change-the-http-port) on port

If you're using STS, you can do it following below steps:

  * Go to Boot Dashboard view, you'll see your Boot app, say **myApp1**

[![enter image description
here](https://i.stack.imgur.com/5cJBL.png)](https://i.stack.imgur.com/5cJBL.png)

  * Right click and click on Open Config. This should open Run Time Configuration section.
  * Go to Argument tab and add parameter server.port=, like in the example below, a custom port **9091** is added.

[![enter image description
here](https://i.stack.imgur.com/QCmgS.png)](https://i.stack.imgur.com/QCmgS.png)

  * Start the app and if everything is good, you'll see the desired port on Boot dashboard.

[![enter image description
here](https://i.stack.imgur.com/ycZxm.png)](https://i.stack.imgur.com/ycZxm.png)

